// впевнений переклад пишемо, заміняючи речення оригіналу, непевнений переклад пишемо, залишаючи оригінал, після нього, взявши його у квадратні дужки.

Chapter One

SYSTEM-BOUND: REALIZING RELATIONSHIPS

"Whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. For some strange reason, I can never be what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be. You can never be what you ought to be until I am what I ought to be. This is the interrelated structure of reality."[1]
    — DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.

WHEN I WAS ELEVEN YEARS OLD, I was assaulted by a young black teenager who stole the expensive new bike my mother had recently bought for me. The gift was fairly rare, likely provided out of guilt from my parents’ recent divorce. At that time, I was living with my father in a poor urban area of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, having moved there from a more rural setting years before. The region was a strange mix of subsidized housing projects and large, circa-WWI Victorian homes in bad repair. It was basically the outcome of what some have termed “white flight” from the decades prior.[2] During more racially turbulent times in America, Caucasians migrated en masse from the cities to the suburbs. The end result was economic stagnation in the regions left behind. While the demographic in the area varied, my Italian-German family was certainly in the minority.

Running home after the attack, bruised and traumatized, I was relieved to find my older brother. In my emotional state I explained the situation. Furiously, protective of his younger sibling, he grabbed a golf club and dragged me out the door and into the car. Speeding around the neighborhood, we ended up in a crowded mall parking lot. Near the top of a hill, I noticed the silhouettes of a couple of young kids, working their way up on their bikes against the setting sun. One of the bikes appeared to have the same spoke structure as mine but I wasn’t sure. In my delirium, I really wasn’t able to make much sense of anything.

“Is that him?!” my brother demanded. I didn’t know and shied away from any further pursuit. I just wanted it all to end.

When my father came home from work, I could sense his outrage as he examined me. As a second-generation Italian immigrant raised in New York poverty, he had a deep culture of family protection and honor ingrained in him. As in the clichés of Italian vengeance popularized inHollywood Mafia films, I could sense his overwhelming need to “do something” about what had happened to me. This sense of retribution was gestural. After all, it was just a kid and no one was going to hunt him down and harm him. The police were notified and a general lookout for the young man went on for a few weeks. Though he was a minor, his being arrested, prosecuted, and penalized would have been the common path of what we call criminal justice in the United States. He was never caught, however.